NARRATOR
Our Heroes are continuing
their journey through
the KalosRegion.
After witnessing
a riveting battle
between Grant and Viola
at the Battle Chateau
and finding out Grant is the
Cyllage City Gym Leader
Ash knows he has his work
cut out for him!
Alright, Froakie,
Water Pulse!
[WATER PULSE ATTACK]
[FOCUSED]
[DOUBLE TEAM ATTACK]
[WATER PULSE ATTACK]
[PAINED]
[HAPPY]
Wow, Fletchling, your
Double Team timing was perfect!
[PROUD]
Okay, Froakie, use Bubble!
[BUBBLE ATTACK]
[EXERTION]
[PAINED]
Yeah! Just like that!
[HAPPY]/[PROUD]
You were great too, Fletchling.
[EXCITED]
Huh?
ALEXA
Those Pokémon
are sure looking good.
‐ 'Ha‐ha, Alexa!'
‐ Good to see you.
It's been a while.
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch them all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"Coming Back Into The Cold."
‐ You all look well.
‐ Thanks!
[GRATEFUL]
So, you decided to travel
along with Ash as well, I see.
Right, and so much
has happened
‐ since I made that choice.
‐ I can imagine!
[EXCITED]
[SALUTATIONS]
[CURIOUS]
[ANNOYED]
[FEAR]
[CONCERNED]
[AMUSED]/[REASSURE]
[CONTENT]
So, Alexa, what brings
you here anyway?
You saw Viola at
the Battle Chateau, right?
Huh? Yeah!
ASH
Everyone knows
how strong Viola is but
she still lost to Grant.
That wasn't easy for her.
Poor dear.
She does not like
losing one bit.
Then, Viola told me
that your next stop
was going to be
the Cyllage City Gym.
I needed to come this way
to do some research
for an article
I've been working on
and I was hoping
to bump into you
and so, voila!
‐ Here I am!
‐ What kind of article?
I'm writing about
the Fossil Lab.
So what's the Fossil Lab?
The Fossil Lab
in Ambrette Town
is a very famous facility!
What kind of place
is a fossil lab, anyway?
It's a place where researchers
study the fossils
of Pokémon
from ancient times.
Their goal is to learn
as much as they can
'about how Pokémon lived then.'
That sounds complicated.
Recently, the researchers
made a big discovery!
And that's what I'm writing
my article about.
Big discovery?
I wonder what it is.
[EXCITED]
[chuckles]
I know, why not come
with me if you like?
You'll be astounded.
[EXCITED]
That'd be great!
Going there would be
such a treat.
[AGREE]
But aren't fossils like bones
and rocks and stuff?
I don't think I get the appeal.
‐ You can't be serious, can you?
‐ Huh?
Don't you see?
Fossils are filled with fun
not to mention science!
Oh. Great.
THADDEUS
'Welcome to the Fossil Lab,
everyone.
My name is Thaddeus,
and I'm a researcher here.
I'm Alexa, and
I'm writing the article.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
ASH/SERENA/CLEMONT/BONNIE
It's a pleasure to meet you!
The pleasure's mine.
Right this way, please.
Well, well, Fossil Lab.
That discovery talk
sounds interesting.
If it happens to be a big
discovery concerning Pokémon..
Of course, then it'll
help us put Team Rocket
on top of the heap!
Let's spy on them.
[whirring]
Wow! Look at that!
'These are all
fossils of Pokémon '
'who lived in ancient times.'
So awesome!
I can't believe they
found so many fossils.
[AMAZED]
Look, those sure are huge bones
aren't they, Dedenne?
[AGREE]
Hm. They just look like
regular rocks to me.
What's so great about them?
Is the big discovery
one of the things in here?
No, it's even more amazing.
Just wait and see!
[EXCITED]
Hmm?
Now, before I take you
into the next room..
...please put on this
cold weather gear.
Huh! Cold weather gear?
[CONFUSED]
[shivering]
Cold!
SERENA
What‐what is this place?
It's like a gigantic
freezer in here!
Freezer?
Dedenne, you okay?
[UNCOMFORTABLE]
Sorry.
We've set the room temperature
'for the comfort of
the Pokémon in here.'
Ha‐ha. Ugh.
[EXERTION]
[EXASPERATED]
Huh?
[CONCERN]
Ah‐ha, cold!
[CONCERNED]
Ah! What's that?
[CONTENT]
Who's that Pokémon?
‐ Wow, an Amaura!
‐ Hmm?
It's a Pokémon from long ago
believed to have lived
in a frozen area
'of the Kalos Region.'
Way, way up north.
You're quite well informed.
'Yes, it's an Amaura.'
'These Pokémon have been extinct
since long, long ago.'
[footsteps approaching]
Huh! What‐what's that?
[CURIOUS]
[PROUD]
And this is Amauras'
evolved form, Aurorus.
It's huge!
[AMAZED]
Amaura and Aurorus.
They're alive!
This must be
the big discovery.
Not fossils,
but real, living Pokémon.
That's right.
I wanted to do
some reporting on them.
[EXCITED]
THADDEUS
'Our fossil lab sent out
an excavating group'
'that discovered
something in a glacier'
'far to the north.'
THADDEUS
And what we restored
from that frozen
Sail Fossil
'is what you now see
in front of you.'
Incredible!
Being able to see
a living Amaura and Aurorus
'with my very own eyes!'
Huh!
[CURIOUS]
Do you want to play, Amaura?
[AGREE]
‐ Me too, me too!
‐ You see, they lived in an area
with very few enemies.
And as a result, they're
very trusting and friendly.
[HAPPY]
Yeah, I can tell.
Of course, you couldn't
have known that
just by looking at a fossil.
'Right, and because
were able to observe'
'Amaura and Aurorus like this'
'we may learn a lot more
about other ancient Pokémon.'
I want a hug, too!
[HAPPY]
‐ Aw.
‐ So cute.
May I get a hug as well?
[AGREE]
[laughing]
This is absolutely incredible.
Thaddeus, can you tell us
some of the things
you've learned so far
from this discovery?
THADDEUS
I'd be happy to.
A restored ancient Pokémon, eh?
Now that would be handy
to have on hand.
Here's the deal!
Amaura and Aurorus,
we'll steal them both.
[EXERTION]
[all laughing]
[AMUSED]
[shivering]
I feel frozen,
it's so cold.
Huh, really?
Well, not me!
I feel warm as toast!
[AGREE]
Of course, he's been
running like crazy.
I'm not surprised you're cold.
We've been in here for a while.
[AGREE]
Let's head out
and warm up, okay?
Aww, but I still want
to play with Amaura.
[UNCOMFORTABLE]
You've got
to think about Dedenne.
We have to make sure
it doesn't catch a cold.
[groans]
Amaura, we've got to go.
But we'll be back.
[DISAPPOINTED]
Sorry!
[SAD]
The Twerps have flown the coop.
‐ The doors to success.
‐ Open them.
[crackling]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Amaura!
[EXERTION]
[shivering]
My whiskers froze.
Whatever.
Let's keep moving.
Amaura?
Where are you?
Hm? Hm? Huh?
There you are!
'Amaura darling.'
'It's no fun playing
by yourself, is it?'
[HAPPY]
I'll be your new playmate.
‐ Over here.
‐ Can't catch me.
Come and see!
[AMUSED]
Here.
Badabing!
JAMES
'That change me!'
[UPSET]
Hold on.
We need Aurorus, too.
We've got work to do.
Where is it? Aurorus?
Hm? Hm?
Huh! There!
[CONFUSED]
Chill, it's cool.
We'll take you to a place
where life is beautiful
all the time.
You come along with us
and we'll play
and play and play
and play and play!
[UNSURE]
You can trust us.
‐ Look in these honest eyes.
‐ No lies!
[UNSURE]
Be a good Pokémon and put
one foot front of the other.
And pretty please.
Can we wrap it up
in this century?
I'd like nothing
more than to move
while I'm still young.
But this big brute won't budge!
[UPSET]
[ANGRY]
Keep it down!
If you don't cease and desist
you'll attract
the wrong element.
Huh? Aurorus!
Hey, who are you?
[gasping]
‐ The jig is up.
‐ Run!
JESSIE
'Oh, well, we've got Amaura.'
Let's get out of here.
JAMES/MEOWTH
Ten‐four!
Stop! Who are you?
[UPSET]
[ANGRY]
Calm down!
‐ You've got to stay right here!
‐ What's going on?
Ah! It's terrible.
Some strange people
just carried off
Amaura in a truck.
They did? Oh, no.
‐ Amaura.
‐ Oh, no!
We have got to recover Amaura
right away, or else..
What do you mean, or else?
Amaura can't handle
warm temperatures.
For a short time,
it can help keep
it's body temperature down
by producing
it's own cold air.
But if Amauras in a
warm place for too long..
If that happens, then what?
Amaura will keep on
getting weaker.
It's in big trouble.
‐ Oh!
‐ We've got to save it!
We've got to!
But we have no idea
which way they went.
[UPSET]
[DETERMINED]
Calm down!
Please, oh..
Aurorus, what's wrong?
[EXERTION]
‐ 'What's that?'
‐ 'An aurora?'
‐ Amauras creating that.
‐ Huh!
When Amaura cries,
it affects the magnetic waves
'in the upper atmosphere
and an aurora appears.'
So, that means Amaura
is somewhere over
in the direction of
that aurora, correct?
Correct.
Aurorus!
Aurorus knows Amaura needs help!
‐ But it's too dangerous!
‐ We'll go with Aurorus, too.
We've got to do something,
quick!
We've got to save Amaura!
‐ Right!
‐ Okay!
‐ He's right.
Let's go along with Aurorus.
[AGREE]
When we find Amaura,
we'll need help
to bring them back.
‐ 'So, be ready.'
‐ Will do.
JAMES
'We've got Amaura,
and we're feeling fine.'
JESSIE
'Once we put
this ancient Pokémon '
'safely in the boss' hands'
we'll certainly
be on his A‐list.
[sneezing]
Cover your mouth.
It's kind of chilly in here.
It is, now
that you mention it.
Oh, grow up!
Toasty!
[SHOCK]/[DEJECTED]
[DEJECTED]
[panting]
Aurorus, what's up?
[CONCERNED]
What's happening to the aurora?
‐ 'It's disappearing!'
‐ What does that mean?
Since the aurora is produced
from Amauras cries
it can't mean anything good.
Without the cold, something bad
might be happening.
[Bonnie whines]
Don't worry, Aurorus.
We'll get Amaura
back safely, no doubt.
[AGREE]
[tires screeching]
MEOWTH
'Hey, something's screwy.'
JESSIE
'Equipment problems.'
JAMES
'Like what?'
JESSIE
'Let's take a look.'
‐ Ah, we've got a flat.
‐ So, we change it.
Right, chop, chop!
ALEXA
The road stops here.
But which way
did the truck go?
We've got to find Amaura.
[SHOCK]
‐ 'Aurorus!'
‐ 'What is it?'
[EXERTION]
[DAZED]
ALEXA
'It's calling out to Amaura!'
I wonder if Amaura
hears Aurorus.
We can only hope
that it's loud enough.
‐ 'It has to be!'
‐ 'Amaura.'
[CONCERNED]
[EXERTION]
[SHOCK]
Amaura, please answer!
[CONCERNED]
[EXERTION]
[CONCERN]
[HOPEFUL]
‐ Oh!
‐ Look, the aurora is back.
Amaura must have
heard your voice.
[HOPEFUL]
But it's across the river.
[EXERTION]
‐ Aurorus froze the whole river!
‐ Way to go, Aurorus!
[WEAK]
The aurora's fading.
Yeah, but Amauras
got to be close by.
Alright, you've got to be
the ones who stole Amaura!
Who are you?
Prepare for trouble,
you know us well.
With our style you should've
been able to tell.
To protect the world
from devastation.
To unite all people
within our nation.
To denounce the evils
of truth and love.
To extend our reach
to the stars above.
‐ Jessie.
‐ And James.
Team Rocket blasts off
at the speed of light.
Surrender now or prepare
for a well‐researched fight.
Meowth, that's right!
[AGREE]
Team Rocket!
I should've known you'd
do something like this!
‐ 'Give us back Amaura!'
‐ Dream on, twerpette.
Amaura's a very precious
restored ancient Pokémon.
One that will be
put to good use.
I won't let you!
[ANGRY]
Then let's see what
you've got, young Twerp.
[ANGRY]
Ash, we've got to hurry!
‐ Let's do this fast!
‐ Only in your dreams.
Alright, Chespin, let's go!
[READY]
Okay, Inkay, out!
Use Pin Missile!
[PIN MISSILE ATTACK]
[PAINED]
‐ Quietly.
‐ Oh, no, you don't!
Out of our way.
We don't have the time.
Fennekin, let's go!
[READY]
Alright, Hidden Power!
[HIDDEN POWER ATTACK]
[snarling]
You and your fur ball
are out of luck!
Huh!
[ANGRY]
Give it up.
Aurorus?
[EXERTION]
[Meowth grunts]
Huh! Amaura!
‐ Ash, it's in here.
‐ Hurry, before it's too late.
[groans]
Let's go, Pikachu!
[AGREE]
Use Thunderbolt!
[THUNDERBOLT ATTACK]
Wobbuffet. And action.
[COUNTER ATTACK]
[FOCUSED]
[EXERTION]
ASH
'Aurorus!'
Now it moves.
[PANIC]
[EXERTION]
[all groans]
MEOWTH
I need a blankie.
[UNCOMFORTABLE]
Thank you, Aurorus!
[HAPPY]
Alright, Pikachu,
Thunderbolt, let's go!
[THUNDERBOLT ATTACK]
JESSIE/JAMES/MEOWTH
We're blasting off again!
MEOWTH
Flash‐frozen to boot.
[AGREE]
Hang in there, Amaura.
[WEAK]
Whoa! Amaura's temperatures
gotten much too high.
Amaura!
[panting]
[grunts]
Please, hang in there.
[CONCERNED]
Amaura!
We've got to get it back
to the lab, now!
[WEAK]
‐ Huh?
‐ Aurorus?
CLEMONT
What's it going to do?
[all gasping]
I see.
'Aurorus is chilling the air
to help Amaura cool down!'
[HAPPY]
Thank goodness!
Amaura looks a whole
lot better now.
That was great, Aurorus!
[GRATEFUL]
Now, let's hurry and get
back to the Fossil Lab.
ASH/SERENA/BONNIE/ALEXA
Huh?
Look, the truck.
ASH
'Over here!'
‐ 'There they are.'
‐ 'Right.'
THADDEUS
You're going to be
just fine, Amaura.
Are you back
to feeling great, Amaura?
[CURIOUS]
[HAPPY]
Amauras' body temperature
is back to normal.
‐ And we're so glad.
‐ Wow, that's great!
Right, buddy?
[AGREE]
You're all better. Yay!
[HAPPY]
Sorry, it's been rough.
Whoa!
[HAPPY]
They look so happy.
[exertion]
‐ Hey, you're freezing.
‐ Well, Ash. You're so lucky.
I really want
to get nuzzled, too!
[laughing]
Hey, that's cold!
Me too!
Oh, that is cold!
I love it!
Say, mind if I join in?
[laughing]
I think it's the perfect time
for a snowball fight.
Alright!
[EXCITED]
[AMUSED]
[all laughing]
ALEXA
'And so, just as it might
have been in ancient times'
it's beautiful to see
people and Pokémon
having fun together.
This should be a great article!
NARRATOR
Thanks to the bond
between therestored ancient
Pokémon Amauraand Aurorus
both are safely back
at the Fossil Lab
which is cause for
celebration by everyone.
It's another
memorable adventure
as our Heroes' journey
continues!
[theme music]